Ι

PREFAOE.

ΙΝ view of the steady progress made in Plautino and
Terentian studies of recent years, there can be no doubt
that a new edition of the Andria, with English notes, is
very much needed. It was, however, with much diffidence
that I accepted the invitation of the general editors of
this series to undertake such a work, but, having once done
sc, 1 have striven couscientiously to produce an edition
which could be said to represent the present state of
Terentian scholarship,

As is well known, there is more trouble in determining
the text of the Andria than that of any other play of
Terence. The Bembinus (A) is available for less than one
hundred lines, and a text must therefore be based upon
the less important Mes. Ι believe, however, that an editor
has no right to depart from ancient authority in an arbi·
trary manner, and I have therefore rejected many of the
conjectural readings adopted by Fleckeisen in his second
edition (1898). What principles have guided me in deter-
mining the relative value of the Mss.,I have set forth in
my article on The Text of the Andria of Terence in the
lbamactieaa os the American Philolopr‘ccl Acaociotioc, Vol.
XXX, 1899. In the comparatively few cases where no

Me. or ancient commentator gives a possible reading, it is
· lii

 

