xliv mraonucrrou.

Simo, pretending that there is no obstacle to the marriage
between his son and Philumena, orders Pamphilus to make
ready for an immediate wedding. His main object is to

secure a good reason for reproving his son, should the latter
refuso. At the same time, in case Pamphilus should acqui·
esce in his wishes, he hopes to prevail upon Chremes to give
his consent. Pamphilus is, of course, inclined to disobey,
but Davus, discovering that Simo does not seriously con·
template the marriage, persuades Pamphilus to profess obe·
dience to his father’s command, assur-ing him that such a
course is perfectly safe, inasmueh as Chremes will certainly
refuso his dauglrter's haud.

It so happens that one Charinus is in love with Philumena,
but hears with dismay that she is to marry his friend Pam·
philus. The latter has to assure Charinus that he will do
his best to put off the marriage.

Meanwhile a child is born to Pamphilus and Glycerium.
Simo hears of the event, hut is supported by Davus iu the
belief that itis all a scheme, devised by Glycerium and her
friends, to prevent Chremes granting his consent. The
latter, however, knowing nothing about the baby, unex-
pectedly yiclds to the repeated solicitations of Simo, who,
seeing no further obstacle to the wedding, is highly elated.
On the other hand, Pamphilus, Charinus, and Davus are
plunged into despair. Charinus accuses Pamphilus of base
treachery, and Pamphilus throws the responsibility of their
misfortunes upon Davus, who, as a last resort, devises an
ingenious scheme. Directing Glycerium’s maid, Mysis, to
lay the baby at Simo's door, lie takes advantage of Chremes'
approach, and cleverly pretending to regard her as the agent
of villanous impostore, makes her declare iu the old gen·
tleman's hearing tlrat the baby belongs to Pamphilus.

Chremes is convinced, and by again renouncing the match
draws upon Davus and Pamphilus the fnll force of Simo’s
wrath. Harmony is restored only by the intervention of

 

